---
title: UBI Would Improve People's Health and Relieve Stress
date: 2019-12-19
template: blog
image: ./image.jpg
banner: ./banner.jpg
description: Why UBI Would Improve People's Health, Alleviate Stress, and Benefit Society
---

  According to Andrew Yang's book, "The War on Normal People", on a study conducted by a Princeton psychologist and a Harvard economist, “...poor people and well-off people perform very similarly on tests of fluid intelligence, a generalized measurement that corresponds to IQ. But if each group was forced to consider how to pay an unexpected car repair bill of $3,000 just before taking the test, the poor group would underperform by the equivalent of 13 IQ points, almost one full standard deviation.” (Yang) The mindset of scarcity takes a huge hit on people's mindsets, happiness, and health. A recent experiment was just conducted in Finland where 2000 random, unemployed Finns throughout the country were provided with about $630 USD per month. According to an article published by the New York Times about the experiment, "Sini Marttinen, 36, a former I.T. consultant, had been unemployed for nearly a year before 'winning the lottery,' as she described the trial. Her basic income gave her enough confidence to open a restaurant with two friends. 'I think the effect was a lot psychological,' she said." (Kauranen) The UBI gave her the confidence to open up a restaurant, a type of work that is very important but often put by the wayside in the economy. According to Bloomberg, the experiment reported that:
  * 58.2% of people had a strong confidence in their future compared with 46.2% of the control group
  * 55.4% of people had a strong or good perceived health compared with 46.2% of the control group
  * 56.1% of people believed they would find a job within the next 12 months compared with 44.8% of the control group
  
  Another UBI experiment that was conducted by the town of Manitoba saw hospitalization rates drop 8.5%. It also saw the rates of high school completion go up. As Evelyn Forget, a professor at the University of Manitoba, stated on the podcast "Freakonomics", "One of the findings was that high-school completion rates had increased, and we discovered that boys, in particular, in low-income families had been under a fair amount of pressure to become self-supporting as quickly as they could. When Mincome [the name of the experiment] came along, some of the families decided that they could allow their sons to stay in high school just a little bit longer. So instead of quitting school at age 16 and getting their first full-time job, these boys stayed in school until they were 18, until they graduated from high school and took their first full-time job a little bit later." (Forget, personal communication, 2016). According to the US Department of Health and Human Services, the poverty line for a single person in 2019 is $12,490. A UBI of $1000 per month would bring the poorest Americans within $500 of crossing the poverty line, and would bring couples over $7000 over the poverty line. With a program like a universal basic income, new mothers would be more encouraged to look after their children instead of staying in their job, and they would be more available to afford quality childcare and food for their child. In the same "Mincome" project that was mentioned earlier, one of the only two groups that took time off of work after receiving the basic income were mothers, who took time to spend with their children at home. The other group were students in school. A universal basic income would greatly increase the mental and physical health of the citizens of the US, and for this reason among many others it is a good plan for this country.
