---
title: UBI Would Counter the Rise of Job Displacement by Automation
date: 2019-12-19
template: blog
image: ./image.jpg
banner: ./banner.jpg
description: A UBI program would greatly benefit those hit by the "Great Displacement", as Andrew Yang calls it. 
---

  According to a paper published by two Oxford professors, Carl Benedikt Frey and Michael Osborne, 47% of American jobs are at high risk of being automated by the mid-2030s. (Frey & Osborne, 2013) That time will come faster than we think. Jobs are already being displaced- think about the new self-checkout counter you saw at your local Safeway that replaced a few checkout workers, or how your local Main Street shops and even big chains like Toys-R-Us are shuttering due to the rise of online e-commerce giants like Amazon and Walmart, and taking down jobs with them. Robots are displacing jobs, and they're doing it fast. When the average person thinks of job displacement by automation, they probably think of robot overlords, controlling our every move and forcing us into submission. However, this isn't actually how the "Great Displacement", as coined by Andrew Yang, would pan out- it'd be way more subtle but extremely devastating. And most people think of job displacement by automation as something that will happen in the future- as stated earlier, it's happening now, and will happen at  increasingly greater rates as time goes on. Here are some jobs that are at great risk of being automated away in the future:
  * Taxi driving and long-haul truck driving (truck driving is the most common job in 29 states, according to a study done by NPR in 2017)
  * Customer service/office assistants (think about the bots that pick up the phone when you call a business, or [Google Duplex](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=D5VN56jQMWM)) 
  * Warehouse workers (Amazon has more than 100,000 robots working in its warehouses and can easily replace more humans if it is deemed helpful to them)
  * Assembly line manufacturing (and manufacturing in general)
  * Retail and customer interaction jobs (Cashiers, baggers, retail helpers, inventory, etc...)
  * Writers (Robots can already write coherent, grammatically correct news articles on basic information like stock prices)
  * Food prep/serving (Some restaurants are starting to introduce robots to serve food and behind-the-scenes, and screens are sometimes used to order as opposed to having hosts)

  If Americans can get automated out of jobs at such a fast rate without a backup income, the future is very bleak for this country. According to Andrew Yang's website, "Our labor participation rate now is only 62.7% – lower than it has been in decades, with 1 out of 5 working-age men currently out of the workforce. This will get much worse as self-driving cars and other technologies come online." (Yang) Robots are infinitely more appealing to companies- robots don't require parental leave, don't need bathroom breaks (or breaks at all), healthcare benefits, etc... All they need is an occasional software update or repair. Robots cost much less per hour to operate than it costs to pay a worker doing the same job, and are more efficient. Many people will be let go from jobs as robots will be able to do the same jobs, but better. Without a basic income, many Americans will be left without any source of income whatsoever. They will be stuck at home and food banks and homeless shelters will overflow for those who lived paycheck-to-paycheck. Without this source of income, people will have no power to look for a job that fits them well, and young children will be left without quality childcare. Basically, our society will be screwed. With a Universal Basic Income, people can cover the basics while having extra money to do a job that suits the person and makes sure that everyone benefits from the rise of automation, not just the wallets of big corporations. People could use the money to find a better job, supplement their own job, start their own business, go back to school, or take care of children and family. The power is fully in the hands of the people- they can live happier and healthier with their newfound source of income. If a job starts paying less or a job is at risk, someone can easily leave and join another company or start their own due to the financial security they receive by getting the check for $1000 in the mail every month. They could even band together with some friends, rent an apartment, and look for jobs together as a group, or go back to school, finish their education, and learn how to code. The universal basic income is a great way to combat the rise of displacement of jobs by automation, and put power into the hands of the people instead of leaving them helpless against the immense power of technology in the 21st century. 
